TPS 1:

1. Name the 3 pools for memory and what kind of variables will be stored in each pool. 

    The 3 pools for memory is stack, heap, and static. Stack can store local variables, heap is dynamic storage, and static can 
    store local variables and static can store global variables.

2. Open mem.c with your favorite text editor and discuss the following questions with your partner: 
    a. How many variables are declared? 

        There are a total of 3 variables that are declared.

    b. How many of them are pointers? What type of data does each pointer point to? 

        Two of the three variables are pointers and they point to integers.

    c. Which pool of memory are these variables stored in? 

        These variables are stored in the stack where local variables are located/stored.

    d. Which pool of memory will the pointer ptr point to in line 12. 

        The pointer "ptr" points to num in line 12.

3. Using a piece of paper (or a drawing app), draw the 3 pools of memory and indicate the locations (in 
which pool?) of the variables in mem.c using boxes (like what we did in lecture). Label the boxes with 
variable names, their content, and their addresses. You will need to insert extra code to obtain the 
addresses of these variables. 



4. In the same drawing, use arrows to connect each pointer to its destination. 






TPS 2:

1. Open NodeStruct.c and discuss what this program does. 

    This program creates a a pointer node called "head" sets the memory allocation to dynamic. Then sets the iValue and fValue to
    their respective data types.

2. Insert extra code to print out the value of head, addresses of head, iValue, fValue, and next pointed 
by head. 



3. Based on the addresses of the members of Node structure, what do you observe about how structures 
are stored in memory? What is the relationship between the pointer (head) and its destination (the 
Node structure)? 

    They are stored as integers with 4 bytes for each variable since the address moved up by 4. 